All right,
let's get started with Components.
I mean, we are getting really far today,
so we've done directives,
method computed watchers.
Now, we're gonna talk about components
then we're gonna build something a little
bit with a CLI and then talk about Nuxt,
which is a meta-framework.
Don't worry,
I'll go into specific detail about that.
We'll do animations, and
we'll do composition API,
and custom directives, and
then we'll end with Vuex.
So when we're talking about components,
there are actually multiple ways
of declaring a Vue component.
It's very flexible in this way.
I would say that there is a very simple
way of making a Vue component, but
it's not that flexible, and
it's not that nice to work with.
So we're gonna go from the simplest
example that's like not as useful.
And we'll go to the most complex
example that's much more useful.
And by most complex,
what I really mean is we're building
something with a CLI and a build tool.
So it's not actually that complex because
Vue offers really, really nice CLI.
So, Templates,
Vue.js uses HTML-based template syntax to
bind the view instance to the DOM,
which is really useful for components.
As I mentioned earlier,
templates are optional.
You can also write render functions and
I linked up to the docs there.
You can also use JSX.
I link up here because we're not gonna
go into a huge amount of detail here.
If you're interested,
you can definitely check that out.
We'll start with strings, which is useful
only for really, really small cases.
And then we'll move to a script tag.
And then we're gonna move to single-file
templates in the next section.
And that's kind of the most common use
case you'll see in a Vue application.
So we'll start with this template.
It's okay, but it's not terribly useful.
So we've got like our
Vue.createApp(App).mount('#app')
like we had before.
So we've got this div id="app".
And we're inserting into that,
you might have noticed that we're not even
putting anything inside of that,
we're able to declare a template.
And then we could say h1, h1, and
that changes that tag to an h1.
So, I'm putting everything in,
through this string.
So, I can use a string if I want.
And sometimes people get confused
because they'll visit the Vue docs and
they'll see that and they'll say, I don't
wanna write everything as a string.
Don't worry, that's not a common use case.
That's just a really simple one if you
wanna show some something very quickly.
Now why would we use components
inside of a Vue app?
Well, I'm a bit of a neck beard,
back in the olden days of web development,
you just throw a lot of HTML on a page and
it would be this big honking thing, and
you'd have to kind of sort through like,
where are everything,
where did everything go?
And then eventually we moved
to like PHP includes and
we started to think about, like,
how do we organize this mess?
And so probably components are familiar
to you if you've been doing
front end dev for a while.
But just in case, if we have a page
that's like an index page, and
it has a header and a sidebar where
we're looping through a bunch of items,
a main area with a blogpost,
which is post in posts and
a footer, it becomes a lot clear where
we're going and what we're doing, right?
If I needed to get into the sidebar and do
something, I know immediately when I look
at this, I'm going right into the sidebar,
I'm gonna look in that blogpost component.
So components, you can think of them
as a collection of elements that
are encapsulated into a group, that can
be accessed through one single element.
So if we have this collection of
elements a div, p tag, div, p tag,
we can access this particular group of
elements through a callout component,
we just say callout once, and it knows to
render all of those things all at once.
So it makes our code a lot more legible.
It makes our ability to kind
of traverse our code and
maintain our code much
more legible as well.
So let's look at the simplest
possible component.
I'm always gonna start from like the
simplest thing and then build off of that.
So we've got our const app.
In our data,
we've got message hi from parent.
And then we've got our app.component.
And this one, again is just a template,
hi from child.
So if we look at our HTML, what we have
is, we're piping in the message here,
we're gonna establish a relationship
between message and message.
And then I'm also going to add a
component-a, and that component-a is here.
So we say app.component,
because we called it app here,
app.component, component-a, and
then we have this template.
If I wanted to change these tags I could
just like in the last example, and
in fact, if I wanted to reuse
this component, I could have,
hi from child, hi from child,
hi from child, and
then we can output multiple
components to that page.
But if I wanted to change this one h1,
then you can see multiple h1s
coming from that template.
So, now we have like the simplest
component that we're working with.
But this still isn't
how we do it in an app.
So Vue is a progressive framework,
so we support incremental adoption.
We support some adoption as
you kind of migrate over.
As I mentioned before,
you can add a script tag, and
then you can get going with that script
tag and use it in an existing code base.
So components are a collection of elements
that can be encapsulated into a group
that can be accessed
through one single element.
So if we have div and a p tag, and div and
p, and all of these collection of elements
and we wanted to make sure that we could
access that again and again,
we can do this callout, and
we can say callout anytime we want this
specific group of components or elements.
So the simplest possible component
that we have is this hi from parent,
hi from child.
And we can say, we have this message
that goes to this HTML element.
We have a message here that's
coming from the parent.
And we said const app.
In that app.component has the component-a.
Component-a is accessed here.
So, we can say here, hi from child,
if I wanted to change the child,
I can say h1, h1, and
that changes that child's component.
So, here we're able to create this app
that also creates the ability
to access that template.
But this still isn't how we actually do it
in an app, Vue is a progressive framework,
so we support incremental adoption.
So, if you have an existing app and let's
say it uses jQuery or Angular or whatever.
And you wanted to start slowly using Vue,
or migrating to it,
because we are able to add it either in
a template, or with a script tag, and
we don't have to create an entire
build process from scratch.
We can support incremental adoption.
I wrote this article replacing jQuery
with Vue, no build step necessary for
Smashing Magazine, because people
were asking me how to do that, right?
They were saying, like, I have this really
old app, I'm using jQuery, how do I just,
with a script tag, replace pieces of
my functionality from jQuery to Vue and
get started using Vue and
that walks through that